---
title: To Buy or Not to Buy
date: '2022-06-24'
layout: blog
---

![Our life is frittered away by detail. Simplify. Simplify.](/img/blog/entryway.jpg)

No matter the market, we are always perplexed by the decision to buy or to not
buy real estate. If it's the decision between renting and owning, we weigh the
costs of the purchase against the costs of maintenance. If it's the decision to
invest, the balancing act of tax advantages against return on investment plagues
our thinking process. No matter our situation, we should be seeking advice from
our trusted advisors. Who do you trust to help you consider your options? Where
are you getting your information?

I always start my decision making process by understanding my terms. By
acknowledging these fundamental steps in your decision making process, you can
avoid being swayed or distracted by erroneous data and information. You can make
valid analysis of your options. We can understand the basic differences between
renting and owning, but how is rental income taxed differently than owner
occupied real estate?

How ownership is taken and how the property will be used must be considered
before any transaction decision can be made. Investment property does not meet
all loan qualifications. Rental properties are taxed differently. Married
couples may buy property to own separately yet state laws may negate the terms
of the contract if the right terms are not clearly defined. Some people will not
buy a house with a contract. This is an interesting situation that does come up
from time to time. I personally will never sell a home without a contract. This
protects the buyer and the seller in full disclosure of their obligation and it
helps define the terms. Who, or what, is your trusted advisor to help you in
your specific real estate decision?

Find a resource, or several resources, you can rely on with the help of a real
estate agent. A real estate agent cannot, and should not, advise beyond their
expertise. They can, and should, be the source for your source. In considering
what real estate agent suits your needs, consider how they are advising you. An
indication of a good real estate agent is how they help you find the resources
you need to make your decisions.
